6-8 English.
From BBCLearningEnglish.com.
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish.
I'm Phil.
And I'm Beth.
Now, let's talk about food.
Okay, what food do you love?
What food do you hate?
If you ask around your soon-seed there's no right or wrong answer, it's all a question
of taste.
But our taste, it turns out, isn't simply a matter of opinion.
Rather, scientists have discovered that taste is influenced by our genes and DNA.
So, in this program, we'll be asking, what is taste?
Why can't we agree on it?
And is it worth listening to experts whose job is to tell us what to eat and drink?
And, as usual, we'll be learning some useful new vocabulary as well.
Great, but first, I have a question for you, Beth.
A good way of finding out about British tastes is with the nation's best-loved snack.
Crisps.
So, what is the most popular flavor of crisps in the UK?
Is it a, salt and vinegar?
B, cheese and onion?
Or C, prawn cocktail?
I'm going to guess cheese and onion.
Okay, Beth, I'll reveal the answer later in the program.
Science is understanding of how taste works.
Started only 25 years ago with the discovery of taste receptors.
Sales located in the taste buds on your tongue.
But people's taste is unique to them.
What tastes sweet to me might taste sour or salty to someone else?
And this is because of differences in the receptors we're born with.
In other words, taste is partly genetic.
Here's Danielle Reed, researcher at the Manel Chemical Census Center in Philadelphia,
explaining more to BBC World Service program the food chain.
When we first started doing genetic studies,
we really just confined ourselves to looking at a few European,
people of European ancestry.
And so our understanding of the broad diversity of humans on the planet
was extremely limited.
We are broadening our horizons and studying people of Asian and African ancestry.
And that has really opened up the knowledge that people are much more diverse than we ever realize.
And what you're saying is, no taste isn't a matter of opinion.
It's a matter of biology.
Exactly.
And we wouldn't, you know, for our friends who are colorblind,
we wouldn't chastise them for not being able to see red or for dressing in colors.
We don't appreciate.
But we feel very free to criticize our friend sense of taste.
It was only when scientists looked outside Europe to the rest of the world
that they realized the diversity of human taste.
Danielle says they broaden their horizons.
They investigated something in a new way to increase their knowledge and understanding of it.
Danielle compares taste to another genetically controlled condition,
being colorblind or unable to see the difference between certain colors like green and red.
You wouldn't chastise, criticize or punish someone for being colorblind.
So why criticize someone's taste?
But if scientists are telling us taste is largely genetic.
What about restaurant critics and wine connoisseurs?
People whose job it is to tell us what's a wheat and drink.
Are there opinions any better than our own?
Here's David Commode, wine judge for the International Wine and Spirits competition,
speaking with Ruth Alexander for BBC World Services, the Food Chain.
Scientists have established that taste is individual,
and to a large extent, actually genetic.
So I wonder does that render the wine competition a pointless exercise?
No, I mean I would say that wouldn't I, but of course individual taste is subjective.
We all have our own personal prejudices in whatever sphere of life you want to go into.
But we are encouraged, I mean ordered or most to park those prejudices.
Since people's tastes are naturally different, Ruth asks if a wine competition is pointless,
without purpose and a waste of time.
Being a wine judge, David of course disagrees, using the phrase,
but I would say that wouldn't I. This phrase means something like, of course I would say that.
It implies there's some reason that what the speaker is saying is obviously biased towards them.
David admits that taste is subjective.
Based on personal opinions and feelings rather than on facts.
And I think it's time to reveal the answer to your question, Phil.
Right, I asked for Britain's most popular flavor of crisp, and you said cheese and onion,
which was the correct answer. Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned in this program,
starting with the phrase to broaden or expand your horizons,
meaning to explore something in a new way, which increases your knowledge and understanding of it.
To chastise means to strongly punish or criticise.
A colorblind person is unable to distinguish certain colours, especially greens and reds.
Something which is pointless has no purpose or meaning and is a waste of time.
The phrase, I would say that, wouldn't I.
Is a tag question, meaning of course I would say that.
And finally, if something is subjective, it's influenced by personal beliefs or feelings rather than
based on facts. Once again, our six minutes are up. Goodbye for now. Bye.